Pull Request for Comments to the Syllabus (#45)
robotframework/robotframework-RFCP-syllabus: website/docs/chapter-02/01_suitefile.md

::::lo[Learning Objectives]

:::K2[LO-2.1]

Understand which files and directories are considered suites and how they are structured in a suite tree.

:::

::::

When executing Robot Framework, it either parses directory trees or files, depending on which paths are given.

The given path to Robot Framework where it starts parsing is considered the **Root Suite**.

If the path to a single file is given as **Root Suite** directly to Robot Framework, only this file is parsed.

If a directory path is given, starting at this location, Robot Framework will parse all `*.robot` files and directories within this path.
Robot Framework analyzes all containing files and determines if they contain test cases or tasks. If they do, they are considered **Suite Files** or **Low-Level Suites**.
All directories that either directly or indirectly contain a Suite File are considered **Suites Directories** or **Higher-Level Suites**.

The ordering of suites during execution is, by default, defined by their name and hierarchy.
All files and directories, which are suites in one directory, are considered on the same level and are executed in case-insensitive alphabetical order.

> It is possible to define the order without influencing the name of the suite by adding a prefix followed by two underscores `__` to the name of the directory or file. This prefix is NOT considered part of the name.
> So `01__First_Suite.robot` sets the suite name to `First Suite`, while `2_Second_Suite.robot` sets the suite name to `2 Second Suite`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to define the order without influencing the name of the suite by adding an arbitrary prefix followed by two underscores `__` to the name of the directory or file. This prefix is NOT considered part of the name.
So both `01__First_Suite.robot` or `345foo__FirstSuite.robot` set the suite name to `First Suite`, while `2_Second_Suite.robot` results in a regular suite name `2 Second Suite`.
```

Reviewer 2: Won't the 345foo__FirstSuite.robot`` suite file set the name `FirstSuite` in your correction?

Reviewer: > Won't the `345foo__FirstSuite.robot` suite file set the name `FirstSuite` in your correction?

Yes, you're right! :-)

One or more underscores in file or directory names are replaced by space characters as suite names.

Legend:
```plaintext
▷ Directory (No Suite)
▶︎ Suite Directory
◻︎ File (No Suite)
◼︎ Suite File
```

Example:
```plaintext
 ----- Tree Structure / Order --------- | ---- Suite Name ---------
  ▶︎ Root_Suite                          | Root Suite
    ◼︎ A_Suite.robot                     | A Suite
    ▶︎ Earlier_Suite_Directory           | Earlier Suite Directory
      ◼︎ B_Suite.robot                   | B Suite
      ◼︎ C_Suite.robot                   | C Suite
    ▷ Keywords (No Suite)               |
      ◻︎ technical_keywords.resource     |
    ▶︎ Later_Suite_Directory             | Later Suite Directory
      ◼︎ 01__FirstSuite.robot            | First Suite
      ◼︎ 02__SecondSuite.robot           | Second Suite
      ▶︎ 03__ThirdSuite                  | Third Suite

>         ◼︎ 01__FirstSubSuite.robot       | First Sub Suite

Reviewer 3: It doesn't explain in this section that CamelCase adds a space to the Suite name. I had to guess that looking at this example.

        ◼︎ 02__SecondSubSuite.robot      | Second Sub Suite

>       ◼︎ 04__FourthSuite.robot           | Fourth Suite

Reviewer: `01__FirstSuite.robot` leads to the suite name `FirstSuite`, not `01 FirstSuite`
Prefix and `__` are removed.

>       ◼︎ 04__FourthSuite.robot           | Fourth Suite

Reviewer 4: Very true! Thanks! Updated my suggestion.

```

## 2.1.1 Suite Files

::::lo[Learning Objectives]

:::K1[LO-2.1.1]

Recall the conditions and requirements for a file to be considered a Suite file

:::

::::

Robot Framework parses files with the extension `.robot` and searches for test cases or tasks within these files.

A parsed file that contains at least one test case or task is called a **Suite File**.

A Suite File **either** contains `*** Test Cases ***` (in Test Suites) **or** `*** Tasks ***` (in Task Suites), but it CANNOT contain both types simultaneously.

## 2.1.2 Sections and Their Artifacts

::::lo[Learning Objectives]

:::K1[LO-2.1.2]

Recall the available sections in a suite file and their purpose.

:::

::::

Robot Framework data files are defined in different sections.
These sections are recognized by their header row.

> The format is `*** <Section Name> ***` with three asterisks before and after the section name and section names in *Title Case* separated by a space.

Author: that proposes to use UPPER CASE for Title Case? I disagree

The following sections are recognized by Robot Framework and are recommended to be used in the order they are listed:
- `*** Settings ***`
- `*** Variables ***`
- `*** Test Cases ***` or `*** Tasks ***` (mandatory in Suite Files)
- `*** Keywords ***`
- `*** Comments ***`

The sections `*** Settings ***`, `*** Variables ***`, `*** Keywords ***`, and `*** Comments ***` are optional in suites and can be omitted if not needed.

> ### 2.1.2.1 Introduction in `*** Settings ***` Section

Author: i will use `to`.

we need unique section names. and just `*** Keywords ***` Section is already used in 3.3.1.

::::lo[Learning Objectives]

:::K1[LO-2.1.2.1-1]

Recall the available settings in a suite file.

:::

:::K2[LO-2.1.2.1-2]

Understand the concepts of suite settings and how to define them.

:::

::::

This section is used to configure various aspects of the test|task suite.
It allows you to import keywords from external libraries (`Library`) or resource files (`Resource`), and import variables (`Variables`) from variable files (Not part of this syllabus) that are needed for execution in the containing tests|tasks.

In this section, the suite name, that is normally derived from the file name, can be redefined with the `Name` setting and its documentation can be defined with the `Documentation` setting.

> Additional metadata can be defined by multiple `Metadata` entries, which can containd key-value pairs that can be used to store additional information about the suite, like the author, the version, or related requirements of the suite.

Reviewer 3: Typo here "containd" (Yes I annoy people at work like this in code reviews :-) )

- `Test Template`/`Task Template` (locally `[Template]`) defines a template keyword that defines the test|task body and is typically used for Data-Driven Testing where each test has the same keywords but different argument data. The local setting overrides the suite's default.

Similar to test|task tags, also keyword tags can be defined in the `*** Settings ***` section with the `Keyword Tags` (locally `[Tags]`) setting, which can be used to set keyword tags to the keywords. The local setting appends or removes tags defined by the suite's default.

### 2.1.2.2 Introduction in `*** Variables ***` Section

::::lo[Learning Objectives]

:::K1[LO-2.1.2.2]

Recall the purpose of the `*** Variables ***` section.

:::

::::

This section is used to define suite variables that are used in the suite or its tests|tasks or inside their keywords.

The most common use case is to define these variables as constants that contain a static value during execution.

> This can either be a default value, that may be overwritten by globally defined variables via the Command Line Interface (CLI) or a constant value that is used on multiple places in the suite.

Reviewer 3: Should be "or a constant value that is used in multiple places in the suite."

on -> in
